DIFFERENTIATE ABOUT HTTP1.1 and HTTP 2

 HTTP stands for hypertext transfer protocol, and it is the basis for almost all web applications. 
 More specifically HTTP is the method computers and servers use to request and send information.
 The first usable version of HTTP was created in 1997. Because it went through several stages of development.
 This first version of HTTP was called HTTP/1.1. This version is still in use on the web. 
 In 2015, a new version of HTTP called HTTP/2 was created.

HTTP1.1 :

1. The first usable version of HTTP was created in 1997. Because it went through several stages of development
   this first version of HTTP was called HTTP/1.1. This version is still in use on the web.
 
2. It uses text based commands for HTTP requests.

3. HTTP1.1 loads resources one after the other, so if one resource cannot be loaded
   it blocks all the other resources behind it.
 
4. It is based on the Client/Server model. Client/Server model can be explained as two computers, Client (receiver of service) and Server (provider of service) 
   that are communicating via requests and responses.

5. For example : a client sends a text-based request to a server by calling a method like GET or POST. In response, the server sends a resource like an HTML page back to the client.


HTTP 2 :

1. In 2015, Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) release HTTP/2, the second major version of the most useful internet protocol, HTTP.

2. HTTP2 is able to use a single TCP connection to send multiple streams of data at once so that no one resource blocks any other resource.

3. HTTP2 does this by splitting data into binary-code messages and numbering these messages so that the client knows which stream each binary message belongs to.

4. In HTTP/2, when a client makes a request for a webpage, the server sends several streams of data to the client at once, instead of sending one thing after another.
   This method of data delivery is known as multiplexing.

5. HTTP/2 is able to use a single TCP connection to send multiple streams of data at once so that no one resource blocks any other resource. 

6. The main goal for developed HTTP2 are Request multiplexing over a single TCP connection and Request pipelining.



 
 
